# DX12GraphicsEngine
DX12GraphicsEngine is a Visual Studio project that contains the boilerplate code to render 3D assets using DirectX 12.  It's a starting point to build DX12 applications that will do complex graphics rendering in C++ and HLSL.  

It contains a few demo applications that show how to setup DX12 for rendering.  These applications include standard rendering as well as ray tracing with DXR.  An example of inline ray tracing from within a pixel shader is also included.

The standard rendering app shows how to do multi-threaded rendering with DX12.  It also shows how to integrate a compute shader into the rendering pipeline along with graphics shaders every frame.  Basic mathematics is performed using the DirectXMath library.

The ray tracing applications demonstrate how to configure DirectX 12 for rendering scenes with the DXR ray tracing library.  They demonstrate DXR using a few directly bound shader resources.  More importantly, the applications also show how to use "bindless" resource managment.  Configuring the DXR pipeline is more difficult than the standard graphics pipleine.  Using bindless resources simplifies the managment of complex 3D scenes, but the code setup in C++ and HLSL is a bit tricky.  The shader binding table (SBT) includes support for multiple ray types and different materials.

Another ray tracing application uses "inline ray tracing".  The application shows how to cast rays in a pixel shader and check for triangle hits.  It demonstrates using ray tracing as a method of shadow generation without the need for a conventional shadow map.

There is a point cloud renderer in the standard DX12 application that loads .ply files.  The .ply files are point cloud files that can be generated from many devices including a modern iPhone.  After loading the point cloud file, each point is rendered as a quad generated by a geometry shader.

For the sample apps, 3-d models are Wavefront "obj" files that contain the vertex data (position, normals, uvs).  The texture data for the assets is either png, dds, or jpg. 

The camera is controlled via the standard WASD.  The up and down arrow keys can be used to move along camera y-axis.  Camera orientation is controlled via pressing the left or right mouse button and using the arrow keys.  The left and right arrows control camera yaw.  The up and down arrows control camera pitch.  Press "R" key to reset to starting position and orientation.

The main.cpp is the entry point to the application and has the standard WinMain function.

To build the project:
1) Microsoft Visual Studio Community 2022 or higher is required to load the project and build the application.
2) The latest Windows SDK needs to be installed.
3) The project requires package id="Microsoft.Direct3D.D3D12" version="1.618.3" to be installed (use NuGet).

Hardware and graphics driver support for DXR ray tracing is required.

